In this video we'll see how we can use base class references and dynamic polymorphism in addition to
base class pointers.
We can also use base class references and have polymorphic function calls.
This is very useful when we pass objects to functions by reference and the functions expect a reference
to a base class object.
First let's see how we can use references directly and achieve dynamic binding or virtual methods.
We use the same account class hierarchy that we use throughout this section.
So let's create an account object A.
And then we'll create a reference ref that's a reference to an account that's the base class reference
and we initialize ref today.
Now if we call the withdraw method using the ref reference we're calling the account withdraw method
but the binding is dynamic.
Let's see another example with a trust account.
In the second example we create a trust object t.
And then we'll create ref 1 as a reference to an account object.
That's the base class reference and we initialize ref 1 to T.
Now if we call the withdraw method using the reference ref 1 we call the trust withdraw method.
You can see that this method was bound dynamically.
Let's see a more useful example.
Suppose we have a method called do withdraw.
And it expects a reference to an account object.
Note this is our base class reference.
It also expects a double with the amount to withdraw in the function body we call the withdraw method
of whatever account object was passed in.
And we also use the amount supplied.
So let's call this method with a few objects.
First we create an account object A and we pass a and 1000 to do withdraw in the body of the do withdraw
function we bind the withdrawal call to account withdraw dynamically.
Now suppose we create a trust account object named T and we pass t and 1000 to do withdraw the withdraw
method that will be called in to do withdraw method is the trust withdraw says we're binding it dynamically.
You can see that function is expecting based class references allow us to think in the general again
and not have to worry about details.
So let's head over to the idea and try some base class references.
So I'm in the IDM in the Section 16 workspace in the base class references project.
And let's go through a couple of simple examples here.
First of all this is similar to what I did on the slide here.
Let's take a look at three these three lines of code right here.
Here we're creating an account object A and we're using the same account hierarchy we've been using
throughout this section.
So that creates the account object.
You know I've got a ref that's my variable name and it is a reference to an account that's my base class
reference.
And I was initializing it to a right here.
So when I call ref withdrawal that's going to bind it dynamically.
And in this case I happened to be referring to an account.
So it will call a count withdraw.
Now in this case here on line 50 and through 52 we've got a trust object now which is a little bit different.
So ref 1 again is a reference to an account that's my base class reference and I'm initializing it to
T.
T is a trust account.
So that's perfectly valid.
In this case when I call ref ones withdraw what's going to happen is a method call will be bound dynamically
because it will realize that ref 1 is currently referring to a trust account.
So it will bind binded to trust withdraw because they're all virtual methods.
OK.
So that's pretty straightforward I think.
Now let's take a look at this function call I've got to see post-poll function appear on 940.
So when we did on the slides It's called do withdraw and it expects a reference to an account object.
That's my base class reference right there.
It also expects a double which is going to be passed in and then in the body of this function.
I'm just calling a count and a withdraw.
So the idea here is since the withdraw function is a virtual function this will be bound dynamically.
And here's an example we're creating for accounts a one to a three and a four.
There are all different types once that account one's a savings account checking account and trust account
as you can see.
And then I'm calling to withdraw and then passing in a one to three and a four.
These methods will be bound dynamically and we'll see this behavior which is exactly what we expect.
Now every compiler vendor is free to implement dynamic polymorphism using virtual functions however
they wish.
But most implementations are pretty similar.
So let's take a look at this.
Let's run the debugger and I put it a couple of break points already and what's important here we'll
look at all these variables there is a lot of variables here are only interested in a couple.
Now at this point we have ref and we have ref 1 and all my code already executed.
But let's take a look at ref you can see ref right here and you can see that ref is referring to an
account right.
That's the whole idea.
Now you also see this bunch of code in here and you see that VTR lets your virtual pointer.
So this tells you that there is dynamic polymorphism going on but now take a look at ref 1.
Here's ref 1 and if we expand ref 1 here you can see that ref 1 while it is a reference to a base class.
It's actually referring to a trust account right now and you could see it right there.
So you can see the trust account has the account part of it.
So that's pretty cool that you can see all that information right in here.
And it really gives you a good idea of what's going on.
Now let's take a look at the do withdraw.
We're right here on line 59.
We're about to call do withdraw.
We're about to pass that account a one in with a thousand someone to step through it and now I'm in
the do withdraw.
So let's take a look at what account is all about.
In this case the account that was passed in is a reference to an account.
Right of course it is a base class reference.
But in this case when I expand it you can see that it's actually referring to an account object since
it didn't expand out.
Let's try it one more time and we'll do it with a two a two as a savings account.
So I step through that.
And now if we look at a account you can see that account while it is still a reference to the base class
it is currently referring to a savings account.
And you can see that the savings account has the account part within it.
So when we execute this and I'll just step through it real quickly with you the last two.
And when we see the output and here you can see the output.
So we're doing a count withdraw trust withdrawing that we're saying account savings checking and trusts
withdraw right down here.
So it's exactly like we expect.
So you can see that when you use a base class reference you still get the polymorphic behavior which
is pretty cool and writing functions like these that expect references to base class objects is really
handy to do.
And it saves you from thinking in detail again.
So I'm thinking here just I want to deposit that amount to whatever account was passed into me so I
can think very very abstractly.